---
title: React4j 0.03 released
author: React4j Project
authorURL: https://github.com/react4j
---

[Full Changelog](https://github.com/react4j/react4j/compare/v0.02...v0.03)

Changes in this release:

##### Added
* Cached javascript functions created for methods annotated with `@EventHandler`. This allows the equivalent
  of `PureComponent` to be used in React4j to avoid expensive re-renders when only event handlers have updated.

##### Fixed
* Add the missing inherit `com.google.gwt.user.UI` to `react4j.widget.ReactWidget.gwt.xml`.
* **\[processor\]** Add an explicit check to verify that `@EventHandler` annotated methods do not have the same
  logical name nor do they overload each other (i.e. have the same method name but with different parameters).
  Either scenario will result in compilation errors and these checks just make the failure reason explicit.
* **\[arez\]** Make sure `ReactArezComponent` implements `componentWillUnmount` lifecycle method and cleans up
  the arez resources.

##### Changed
* 💥 Change all the compile time constant property keys from being prefixed by `react.` to being prefixed
  by `react4j.` to align with project name change. This should impact downstream users if the builtin modules
  are inherited from and no custom properties were set.
* 💥 **\[arez\]** Classes extending `ReactArezComponent` must NOT be annotated with `@ArezComponent` as the
  generated subclass will be annotated instead. Any `@EventHandler` annotated method have the `@Action` annotation
  added by default and it is an error for the developer to explicitly annotate an `@EventHandler` with an `@Action`
  annotation. This behaviour can be aborted by annotating the method with `@NoAutoAction` in which case the
  developer is responsible for adding the `@Action` annotation if needed.
* **\[processor\]** Change the output of processor so that the method that previously provided the constructor
  function and the event handlers is now a subclass of the component. Also move the lifecycle class and native
  component adapter as static subclasses of this single enhanced component class. This means that React4j generates
  a single java file for each component. The intent is to make it easier to understand what is happening underneath
  the covers.
* **\[core\]** 💥 Remove `Component.forceUpdate()` and replace it with the api `Component.scheduleRender(boolean force)`
  where `force=true` calls the underlying `NativeComponent.forceUpdate()` and `force=false` is equivalent
  to `setState({})`.
* 💥 Changed the maven group coordinate from `org.realityforge.react` to `org.realityforge.react4j`
  so as to reflect project name change.
* Began to automate the release and publishing of both the website to GitHub and the release artifacts
  to Maven Central.
* Replace usages of `org.jetbrains:annotations:jar` dependency with `org.realityforge.anodoc:anodoc:jar`
  as that is the same dependency used in `arez`, `braincheck` and other upstream dependencies.
