---
title: React4j 0.90 released
author: React4j Project
authorURL: https://github.com/react4j
---

[Full Changelog](https://github.com/react4j/react4j/compare/v0.89...v0.90)

Changes in this release:

* **\[processor\]** Change the annotation processor so that only whitelisted annotations are copied to
  subclasses and overridden methods. The whitelisted annotations include `javax.annotations.Nonnull`,
  `javax.annotations.Nullable` and `java.lang.Deprecated`.
* **\[processor\]** Change the way the annotation processor handles the Arez annotation `@Computed`.
  If the annotation processor detects that the user has not supplied a `priority` then the annotation
  processor will override the method and redefine the priority as `LOWEST`. This simplifies code in
  `@Computed` methods that will not attempt to schedule before the `render()` reaction that is scheduled
  at `LOW` priority and will thus be un-observed if no longer needed. In the scenario where a `@Computed`
  is derived from a `@Prop` that is an Arez element and the arez element is disposed, then the `render()`
  method will trigger, render null and un-observe any `@Computed` methods. Thus `@Computed` methods will
  not need to include checks to see if props are disposed unless accessed from other observers.
* **\[processor\]** Detect `@Memoize` methods and default priority to `LOWEST` unless specified.
* **\[arez\]** Update the `org.realityforge.arez` dependencies to version `0.104`.
* **\[processor\]** Generate a compile error if any react4j component lifecycle method is annotated with
  an Arez annotation that is not `@Action`.
* **\[processor\]** Generate a compile error if a component has arez annotations but does not
  extend `ReactArezComponent`.
* **\[processor\]** Generate a compile error if a `@Prop` method is annotated with an arez annotation.
* **\[processor\]** Generate a compile error if a `@State` method is annotated with an arez annotation.
* **\[processor\]** Generate a compile error if a `@Prop` method returns a collection or array where
  the elements contained by the collection or array are Arez elements. This can result in significant
  problems if the arez component is disposable as an arez component can be disposed but that will not
  necessarily trigger a re-render of the react component (unless the react component has deliberately)
  observed the component and/or is coded to correctly skip disposed elements. This is considered too
  difficult to get right and now generates an error.
