---
title: React4j 0.96 released
author: React4j Project
authorURL: https://github.com/react4j
---

[Full Changelog](https://github.com/react4j/react4j/compare/v0.95...v0.96)

Changes in this release:

* Update the javascript included within package to react version `16.5.1`.
* **\[arez\]** Update the `org.realityforge.arez` dependencies to version `0.107`.
* **\[arez\]** The values of computed and observable properties were not being updated under arez state key
  when they were being changed resulting in incorrect values being presented in DevTools inspector and
  profiler. This has been fixed.
* **\[arez\]** Subclasses of `ReactArezComponent` are no longer able to store values in reacts native state,
  thus there is no need to namespace the dependency state under a key named `arez` so remove the key and add
  dependency data directly into state object.
* **\[arez\]** The method `ReactArezConfig.shouldStoreArezDataAsState()` should never return true if
  `Arez.areSpiesEnabled()` returns false as the Arez spy system is used to extract and store arez state. The
  `shouldStoreArezDataAsState()` method has been adapted to incorporate this condition and this guard has been
  removed from other locations where it is no longer required.
* **\[arez\]** Unwrap boxed values and convert enums into strings when emitting arez property values in the
  react state.
* **\[arez\]** If a dependency was removed from a component and `ReactArezConfig.shouldStoreArezDataAsState()`
  returns true then `ReactArezComponent` could result in an infinite loop trying to converge state as reacts
  `setState` merges new state and will not replace state. This has been fixed by setting the value of the keys
  to `undefined` value.
* **\[arez\]** Expose the id and name of the react component according to arez as state values under the
  `Arez.id` and `Arez.name` keys when `ReactArezConfig.shouldStoreArezDataAsState()` returns true.
* **\[core\]** Introduce several methods that wrap around the component lifecycle method so frameworks can
  customize particular lifecycle steps to provide custom behaviour. This was already possible with specific
  lifecycle steps but support for customization has been added to the lifecycle methods `componentDidMount()`,
  `componentDidUpdate()`, `componentDidCatch()` and `shouldComponentUpdate(...)`.
* **\[arez\]** Rework `ReactArezComponent` so that it overrides the `performComponentDidMount()` method and the
  `performComponentDidUpdate()` method to store Arez dependencies in react state when
  `ReactArezConfig.shouldStoreArezDataAsState()` returns `true`. This means that sub-classes no longer need to
  call the `super.componentDidMount()` method or the `super.componentDidUpdate()` method if the component overrides
  the `componentDidMount()` method or the `componentDidUpdate()` method.
* **\[arez\]** Avoid comparisons of state in `ReactArezComponent.shouldComponentUpdate()` as state is unused in arez
  based react components and `ReactArezComponent.scheduleArezKeyUpdate()` has been updated for forcefully schedule
  a render which skips `ReactArezComponent.shouldComponentUpdate()` lifecycle step.
* **\[dom\]** Add missing "bottom" property to `react4j.dom.proptypes.html.CssProps`.
* **\[arez\]** Specially handle `java.util.stream.Stream` values when emitting them as values in component state
  for DevTools by converting them to string constants. This vastly improves the readability in the DevTools.
* **\[arez\]** Add mechanisms for customizing values emitted in state for DevTools by adding a template method
  named `ReactArezComponent.renderValueAsState(ObservableValueInfo,Object)`.
* **\[arez\]** Add guard to avoid infinite recursion as a result storing dependencies in react state causing a
  re-render.
* **\[processor\]** Generate a compile error if methods annotated with `@Callback` have a public access modifier
  unless the method is defined as a default method on an interface.
