---
title: React4j 0.52 released
author: React4j Project
authorURL: https://github.com/react4j
---

[Full Changelog](https://github.com/react4j/react4j/compare/v0.51...v0.52)

Changes in this release:

##### Fixed
* **\[core\]** Fixed bug where `ReactConfig` was incorrectly accessing the setting `arez.enable_component_names`
 rather than correct `react4j.enable_component_names`.
* Fixed a bug where sources generated by the annotation processor may not be included in output jars.
* Avoid building Intellij IDEA projects with `generated/processors/main/java` on the class path unless the
  module is expected to use annotation processors.
* Fix the build process so that it is no longer possible to build jars where the java source is not present
  in the gwt enhanced artifacts.

##### Added
* Added test infrastructure that builds downstream `todomvc` application with the updated version of `react4j`,
  compares the build sizes and then pushes the updates during release process.

#### Changed
* **\[docs\]** Updated favicon so that transparent background is supported.
* **\[docs\]** Updated the color scheme of the logo and website to a green based color scheme to distinguish
  it from Arez website on which the original site was based.
* **\[core\]** Introduce a `react4j.check_invariants` compile time setting to control whether invariant
  checking is enabled in react4j. Expose this setting via `ReactConfig.shouldCheckInvariants()`.
* **\[core\]** Added guards around the `invariant(...)` calls to make it easier for the GWT compiler to optimize
  out unused lambda expressions.
* **\[processor\]** Enhance the generator so that `invariant(...)` calls in the generated code are guarded
  to make it easier for the GWT compiler to eliminate unused lambda expressions.
