---
title: React4j 0.102 released
author: React4j Project
authorURL: https://github.com/react4j
---

[Full Changelog](https://github.com/react4j/react4j/compare/v0.101...v0.102)

Changes in this release:

* **\[core\]** Remove the `@State` annotation. This is the first step to removing the infrastructure to
  support the traditional react state model.
* **\[core\]** Replace the compile time constant `react4j.arez.store_arez_data_as_state` with
  `react4j.store_debug_data_as_state`, expose it via `ReactConfig.shouldStoreDebugDataAsState()` and move
  the configuration property to the `[core]` module.
* **\[arez\]** Remove the empty lifecycle methods in the `ReactArezComponent` class and enhance the annotation
  processor so that they are no longer needed to store arez details as debug data.
* **\[core\]** Move the capability to store arbitrary debug data as react component state into the
  `react4j.Component` class from the `react4j.arez.ReactArezComponent` class.
* **\[core\]** Remove the `nextState` parameter from `Component.shouldComponentUpdate(...)` and
  `Component.componentDidUpdate(...)` as it is no longer used now that individual components do not manage
  state.
* Compile with `-parameters` passed to javac so that debug information includes parameter names. This will
  result in the annotation processor generating methods using real parameter names rather than synthesized
  parameter names (such as `arg0`) in java version 9+.
* **\[processor\]** Optimize the code generated for detecting changes in props annotated with
  `@Prop(shouldUpdateOnChange=true)` but not `@Prop(observable=false)` by immediately returning `true` when
  a change is detected and avoiding comparing any further props that may exist.
* **\[core\]** Add support for the `shouldUpdateOnChange` parameter on the `@Prop` annotation for non-arez
  subclasses. This involved moving functionality from `ReactArezComponent` back to `arez.Component` class,
  marking the `shouldUpdateOnChange()` as package-access and final and updating the annotation processor to
  generate the native glue code only if there is any logic generated to support `shouldUpdateOnChange`.
* **\[core\]** Make the methods `Component.performComponentDidUpdate(...)` and `Component.performComponentDidMount()`
  final and package access as no longer any need to allow middleware to customize these methods.
* **\[core\]** Remove the mechanisms by which component authors can update react state.
* **\[core\]** Fix a bug where methods annotated with `@Prop(observable=true)` that return a primitive
  value would always force a re-render of the component even if the value is the same.
* **\[core\]** Remove the `arez.Procedure` interface as it is no longer used.
* **\[core\]** Reduce the access level of `ReactConfig.checkComponentStateInvariants()` to package access as
  not intended to be used outside the package.
* **\[core\]** Remove the unused method `ReactConfig.isProductionMode()` and the associated compile time
  constant `react4j.environment`.
* **\[core\]** Remove the `force` parameter from the method `Component.scheduleRender()` as every render
  triggered through this mechanism is expected to explicitly render the component.
* **\[processor\]** Remove the `@Action` annotation from the generated `shouldUpdateOnPropChanges`
  method as it is unnecessary and increases codesize and decreases runtime performance.
* **\[processor\]** Eliminate numerous null checks when implementing `Component.shouldUpdateOnPropChanges()`
  using the annotation processor by moving the null check into the caller. This resulted in a significant
  decrease in code-size and a slight performance improvement.
* **\[core\]** Remove the `prevProps` parameter from the method `Component.componentDidUpdate()` as component
  writers can not safely use parameter and are expected to make use of annotation processor features instead.
* **\[core\]** Introduce the `@OnPropChanged` annotation that can be applied to methods that will be invoked
  in the `Component.componentDidUpdate()` lifecycle stage when a prop has actually changed.
