---
title: React4j 0.76 released
author: React4j Project
authorURL: https://github.com/react4j
---

[Full Changelog](https://github.com/react4j/react4j/compare/v0.75...v0.76)

Changes in this release:

* **\[core\]** Make sure the core GWT module inherits the `react4j.annotations.Annotations` module.
  This means downstream projects need only inherit the `react4j.core.React` module or the
  `react4j.dom.ReactDOM` module and include all the dependencies required to author components.
* Update build process so that the generated poms do not include dependencies on GWT. The GWT
  dependencies are not required by react4j but are only required to GWT compile the project. This
  dependency needs to be broken for GWT3.x/j2cl support.
* Remove the unused `org.realityforge.anodoc:anodoc:jar` dependency.
* Remove the `com.google.jsinterop:base:jar` artifact with the `sources` classifier from the build as
  the main jar includes the sources required for the GWT compiler.
* Remove the `com.google.jsinterop:jsinterop-annotations:jar` artifact with the `sources` classifier
  from the build as the main jar includes the sources required for the GWT compiler.
* **\[arez\]** Update the `org.realityforge.arez` dependencies to version `0.92`.
* Upgrade the `org.realityforge.braincheck:braincheck:jar` dependency to `1.9.0` for compatibility
  with J2CL.
* **\[arez\]** Upgrade the `org.realityforge.arez.browserlocation` dependency to version `0.18`.
* **\[arez\]** Upgrade the `org.realityforge.arez.spytools` dependency to version `0.16`.
* Replace usage of the `com.google.code.findbugs:jsr305:jar` dependency with the
  `org.realityforge.javax.annotation:javax.annotation:jar` dependency as the former includes code that
  is incompatible with J2CL compiler.
* Remove the usage of the `javax.annotation.OverridingMethodsMustInvokeSuper` annotation as the constraint
  is not enforced by code and it's presence requires usage of a library incompatible with J2CL.
* Significantly improve the generation of POMs by using transitive dependencies when applicable.
