---
title: React4j 0.39 released
author: React4j Project
authorURL: https://github.com/react4j
---

[Full Changelog](https://github.com/react4j/react4j/compare/v0.38...v0.39)

Changes in this release:

##### Fixed
* **\[processor\]** Update the annotation processor to support generic react components.
* **\[processor\]** Fixed react components that are defined as nested classes when the react component uses
  the `@EventHandler` or is expected to generate a `*DaggerFactory` class.

##### Added
* **\[annotations\]** Introduced the `@Prop` annotation that can be used on abstract getter methods on
  instances of `ReactComponent`. The annotation processor will implement the getter as an access from
  reacts props value. In subclasses of `ReactArezComponent`, the `@Prop` annotated method is made observable.
* **\[core\]** Expose the special `key` prop on the component class via `Component.getKey()`.

#### Changed
* 💥 **\[arez\]** Upgrade Arez to version `0.49`.
* **\[processor\]** Changed the `NativeReactComponent` class nested in the enhanced component class to private
  access. This eliminates the possibility that it will be accidentally referenced outside of the enhanced component.
* 💥 **\[core\]** The `Component.props()` method has been made final as there is no need for overriding in subclasses.
* **\[core\]** The `Component.render()` method has been made abstract. This makes it clearer to user that this method
  needs to be overridden.

#### Removed
* 💥 **\[arez\]** The `ReactArezComponent.props()` method is no longer observable. Instead it is expected that
  individual `@Prop` annotated methods are defined and these methods are observable.
* 💥 **\[processor\]** Removed the `_create(*)` methods on the generated enhanced component class as no longer
  required now that builders are synthesized.
