---
title: React4j 0.106 released
author: React4j Project
authorURL: https://github.com/react4j
---

[Full Changelog](https://github.com/react4j/react4j/compare/v0.105...v0.106)

Changes in this release:

* **\[processor\]** Upgrade the version of javapoet to `1.11.1`.
* **\[processor\]** Upgrade the Dagger2 support to version `2.19`.
* **\[dom\]** Remove the methods from the `DOM` factory class that accepted `JsArray` parameters. These
  methods have never been used in downstream projects.
* **\[core\]** Rewrite the javascript `React.createElement(...)` method in java. This allows the GWT2.x/J2CL
  compilers to alias methods and optimize the code. This will will result in smaller code sizes as the number
  of calls to that method increases but may increase the size of the code in smaller code bases.
* **\[processor\]** Fix a bug in introduced when the annotation processor that started to optimize prop names
  that resulted in the keys of the `defaultProps` value being `undefined` and thus no default prop values being
  supplied.
* **\[arez\]** Update the `org.realityforge.arez` dependencies to version `0.114`.
* **\[processor\]** Move the constant holding the `ComponentConstructorFunction` instance field to a separate
  inner class to avoid having to check `<clinit>` has been invoked prior to accessing methods on synthetic
  subclass. This results in a modest decrease in size per react component.
* **\[processor\]** Move the constant holding the `PROP_myKey` static constants to a separate class to avoid
  the creation of a `<clinit>` when not needed. Rename the constant to remove the `PROP_` prefix now that it is
  no longer needed.
* **\[processor\]** Move the injection support into static inner class within generated component to avoid
  the creation of a `<clinit>` when not needed. This results in small decrease in code size.
