---
title: React4j 0.43 released
author: React4j Project
authorURL: https://github.com/react4j
---

[Full Changelog](https://github.com/react4j/react4j/compare/v0.42...v0.43)

Changes in this release:

##### Fixed
* **\[processor\]** Fix the `reportPropsChanged()` method override that is generated by the annotation
  processor for subclasses of `ReactArezComponent` to ensure that the method is wrapped in an Arez transaction
  by annotating the method with `@Action`.
* **\[processor\]** Fix the generation of the `@Prop` annotated method with the name `children` so that children
  are correctly passed as the third parameter to `React.createElement()` rather than treating them as a prop
  with the name `"children"`.
* **\[processor\]** Fix the generation of the `@Prop` annotated method with the name `child` so that the child
  is correctly passed as the third parameter to `React.createElement()` rather than treating them as a prop
  with the name `"child"`.

##### Added
* **\[core\]** Define an additional `React.createElement(...,JsArray<ReactNode>)` native method that
  accepts a `JsArray<ReactNode>` parameter for children. This method eliminates the need for unchecked casts
  when passing javascript arrays.
* **\[core\]** Define an additional `React.createElement(...,ReactNode[])` native method that
  accepts an array parameter for children. This method eliminates the need for unchecked casts when
  passing java arrays.
* **\[processor\]** The children `@Prop` will now have non-terminal `'child(...)` methods generated by builder
  so that children can be incrementally appended.
* **\[processor\]** The children `@Prop` will now generate a method on the builder that accepts a
  `Stream<? extends ReactNode>` parameter. The goal is to simplify the developer experience when integrating
  with Java stream API.

#### Changed
* 💥 **\[processor\]** Explicitly checked that no `@Prop` is named `build` as that would result in a compilation
  error when the annotation processor generated the builder.
* **\[processor\]** The `@Prop` named `children` is generated as a varargs method rather than as a method
  that accepts an array to simplify developer experience of generated builders.
