---
title: React4j 0.40 released
author: React4j Project
authorURL: https://github.com/react4j
---

[Full Changelog](https://github.com/react4j/react4j/compare/v0.39...v0.40)

Changes in this release:

##### Fixed
* **\[processor\]** Fixed handling of documented annotations, in particular nullability annotations such as
  `javax.annotations.Nonnull` and `javax.annotations.Nullable` for `@Prop` annotated methods. The annotations
  are copied to the appropriate methods in the generated builder and onto the implemented prop methods in the
  enhanced component subclass.

#### Changed
* **\[extras\]** Prefer the `@Props` annotation strategy for getting props for `WindowPortal` component.
* 💥 **\[core\]** Remove the `BaseProps` class and all the associated infrastructure. This involved removing
  the type `P` type variable from the `Component` class and associated infrastructure. Where the framework
  needs to refer to props as a generic object, replace the type variable `P extends BaseProps` with the type
  `JsPropertyMap<Object>`.
* 💥 **\[annotations\]** Introduced the `@PropDefault` annotation that can be placed on static final fields
  or static getters that will specify or return the default value for a specific prop. This replaces that
  static magically named method `getInitialProps()` that returned the initial props for the entire component.
  This approach is more explicit and allows better type analysis when constructing builders etc.

#### Removed
* 💥 **\[core\]** Removed the `BaseContext` and `BaseChildContext` types and all associated infrastructure.
  ReactJS is moving to deprecate context in the next point `16.3` release and replace it with new, improved
  context API. Rather than supporting the older API that introduces a significant amount of complexity to the
  codebase, React4j has decided to move directly to the new API.
