---
title: React4j 0.53 released
author: React4j Project
authorURL: https://github.com/react4j
---

[Full Changelog](https://github.com/react4j/react4j/compare/v0.52...v0.53)

Changes in this release:

##### Fixed
* **\[processor\]** Remove all dependencies declared in the pom for the `react4j-processor` artifact so
  that tools that inspect the pom do not incorrectly try to add the dependencies to the classpath. All
  required dependencies have been shaded in.
* **\[core\]** Fixed the pom generated for the `react4j-core` artifact to included the classifiers of
  dependencies so that the tools that inspect the pom include the correct artifacts when generating the
  classpath.

#### Changed
* **\[core\]** Annotate `performPostConstruct` method in `react4j.core.Component` with
  `@OverridingMethodsMustInvokeSuper` so that findbugs can verify that subclasses correctly invoke super
  class method if they override it.
* **\[arez\]** Annotate several methods in `react4j.arez.ReactArezComponent` with
  `@OverridingMethodsMustInvokeSuper` so that findbugs can verify that subclasses correctly invoke super
  class methods if they override them.
* **\[core\]** Add the `react-annotations` as a pom dependency so that downstream applications need only
  include `react-core` dependency and be supplied the `react-annotations` on the classpath. The
  `react-annotations` is not added as a normal compile dependency as no code within this package actually
  makes use of the artifact or should make use of the package.
* Change the generated poms so that transitive dependencies of intra-project modules are not duplicated
  as dependencies within each modules dependencies list and instead intra-project dependencies include
  dependencies transitively.
* **\[dom\]** Remove unused dependency on `gwt-user` artifact.
