---
title: React4j 0.97 released
author: React4j Project
authorURL: https://github.com/react4j
---

[Full Changelog](https://github.com/react4j/react4j/compare/v0.96...v0.97)

Changes in this release:

* Update the javascript included within package to react version `16.5.2`.
* **\[arez\]** Make the `ReactArezConfig` class public to make the compile time constants accessible by
  generated component classes.
* **\[arez\]** Change the way subclasses of `ReactArezComponent` are generated. If a `ReactArezComponent` does
  not override `componentDidMount()` or does not override `componentDidUpdate()` then generate a `LiteLifecycle`
  and a `LiteNativeReactComponent` along with the normal `Lifecycle` and `NativeReactComponent`. If the compile
  time setting `ReactArezConfig.shouldStoreArezDataAsState()` returns `false` then use `LiteNativeReactComponent`
  when constructing the components. This improves dead code elimination in both the GWT and J2CL toolchain as
  the `componentDidMount()` and/or `componentDidUpdate()` methods need not be generated and empty and can instead
  just be removed by the compiler. This also has a positive impact on runtime performance.
* **\[processor\]** Generate a compile time error if the return type of a method annotated with `@Prop` is a type
  variable that was declared on the method.
* **\[processor\]** Add a mechanism for minimizing prop names in generated component class to reduce code size.
  A `@JsType` annotated `Props` class does not work in J2CL as the closure compiler would need to be told about
  the keys as part of externs so that the `Object` type is correctly typed. This would stop the names being
  renamed. Manually minimizing the keys based on a compile time constant `react4j.minimize_prop_keys` will work
  around this limitation and make sure the optimization is available in both GWT2 and J2CL builds.
* **\[core\]** Add the `observable` parameter to the `@Prop` annotation. This will control whether a prop is
  modelled as an Arez observable. This change fixes a bug where not all prop changes were detected and reported.
  The default value is to `AUTODETECT` which eliminates observation unless the annotation processor detects that
  it may be needed (i.e. the prop must be on subclasses of `ReactArezComponent` and the component must declare
  methods annotated with `@Computed`, `@Memoize` or `@Observed`). This reduces output code size in scenarios where
  observable props are not needed.
* **\[core\]** Add the `@PropValidate` annotation to identify method that must be called when the value of a prop
  is initially specified or changed. This method is expected to generate an invariant failure if an invalid prop
  is passed to the component and will optimized out if `ReactConfig.shouldValidatePropValues()` returns `false`
  which is the default for production builds. The framework will test the type and nullness of props even if there
  is no `@PropValidate` for prop.
* **\[processor\]** If the element annotated by the `@PropDefault` annotation is not accessible in the package that
  has the type annotated with `@ReactComponent` then generate a descriptive compile error.
* **\[processor\]** Generate a compile error if the method annotated by `@Prop` is public.
* **\[arez\]** Update the `org.realityforge.arez` dependencies to version `0.108`.
