---
title: React4j 0.44 released
author: React4j Project
authorURL: https://github.com/react4j
---

[Full Changelog](https://github.com/react4j/react4j/compare/v0.43...v0.44)

Changes in this release:

##### Fixed
* **\[processor\]** Fix a bug where a `@Prop` named child would incorrectly use the key `child` rather
  than `children` to access the underlying prop value.
* **\[processor\]** Add the `@Generated` annotation onto the generated dagger factory and component builder
  so that tooling and developers can easily identify which code is generated.
* **\[processor\]** Detected usage of names in `@Prop`, `@EventHandler` and `@ReactComponent` to ensure
  that no java keyword is used as this would cause a compilation error when generating the builder.
* **\[processor\]** Fixed processing of the `@PropDefault` annotation on fields so it is able to derive
  default the name if the prop name has characters other than letters.

#### Changed
* 💥 **\[core\]** Remove the methods on `ReactNode` that are responsible for querying the node type and
  converting the `ReactNode` to other types. The method removed include: `asString()`, `asReactElement()`
  `isString()`, `isReactElement()` and `isRenderResults()`. These methods were removed as they are not
  likely to be used within application code.
* 💥 **\[core\]** Remove the `ReactNode.of(...)` methods that accept `ReactElement` parameters as they
  are no longer useful now that `ReactElement` implements `ReactNode`.
* 💥 **\[core\]** Changed the casts in the `ReactNode.of(...)` methods to use `Js.uncheckedCast(...)`.
* **\[processor\]** Used code supplied by the JVM to detect whether a name is a valid java identifier and
  removed custom code to detect whether name is a java identifier. Enhanced the exceptions to give greater
  context to why a name is invalid.
