---
title: React4j 0.109 released
author: React4j Project
authorURL: https://github.com/react4j
---

[Full Changelog](https://github.com/react4j/react4j/compare/v0.108...v0.109)

Changes in this release:

* **\[core\]** Rename the `@OnPropChanged` annotation to `@OnPropChange`.
* **\[core\]** Add support for the `Component.componentPreUpdate(...)` lifecycle method that is invoked prior
  to updating a.k.a. re-rendering a component. This is mapped to the native `getSnapshotBeforeUpdate`
  lifecycle method except that the application developer can not return a value from the method.
* **\[processor\]** Change the way observable props are generated so that the change detection for the props
  occurs in the `shouldComponentUpdate(...)` and `componentPreUpdate(...)` lifecycle steps rather than the
  `shouldComponentUpdate(...)` and `componentDidUpdate(...)` lifecycle steps. This means that the `@Memoize`
  annotated methods that have a return value derived from observable props will be marked as possibly stale
  before a call to `render()` occurs and the component will not need to be re-rendered to reflect a changed
  value returned from the `@Memoized` method.
* **\[core\]** Change the `@OnPropChange` annotation so that it accepts one or more parameters. Each parameter
  represents a prop that is tracked for changes. Any time a change occurs in any prop then the annotated method
  is invoked. The parameters are mapped to props based on a naming pattern or via an explicit `@PropRef`
  annotation if the naming convention is insufficient.
* **\[core\]** Change the `@OnPropChange` annotation so that it accepts a `phase` parameter that controls
  whether the method is invoked before the component is updated/rendered or after the component is updated.
* **\[core\]** Introduce the `@PreUpdate` annotation that can be used to annotate a method that is invoked
  when a component is about to be updated or re-rendered.
* **\[core\]** Introduce the `@PostUpdate` annotation that can be used to annotated a method that is invoked
  when a component has been updated or re-rendered. This replaces the ability to override the
  `componentDidUpdate()` lifecycle method.
* **\[core\]** Introduce the `@PostMount` annotation that can be used to annotated a method that is invoked
  after a component has been mounted. This replaces the ability to override the `componentDidMount()` lifecycle method.
* **\[core\]** Reduce the access level of `Component.start()` method so that it is package access and
  no longer accessible by subclasses. It has not been modifiable since version `0.102` of React4j and there is
  no reason to read it when writing components.
* **\[arez\]** Fix invariant failure that occurred when generating debug state for a component that extends
  `ReactArezComponent` that has observed an Arez observable that has no accessor defined.
* **\[core\]** Remove invariant checking based on the state of the react component. This invariant checking
  was duplicating functionality already implemented by the underlying `ReactJS` library. This also involved
  removing the compile time setting `react4j.check_component_state_invariants` and the accessor
  `ReactConfig.checkComponentStateInvariants()`.
* **\[arez\]** Update the `org.realityforge.arez` dependencies to version `0.122`.
* **\[processor\]** Optimize the processor so that `shouldComponentUpdate(...)` methods are not generated on
  `Lite` native components if the component has `@PropValidate` annotated props but has no observable props
  and is not an Arez component. This reduces the code size and eliminates a noop lifecycle method.
* **\[processor\]** Optimize the processor so that the `componentDidUpdate(...)` and `componentDidMount(...)`
  methods are not generated on a non-arez component unless those features are required to implement other
  capabilities. This reduces code size and eliminates unnecessary work for React during rendering.
* **\[arez\]** Update the `ReactArezComponent` class to change the strategy via which resources are released
  to use the `@PreDispose` annotation from Arez to mark the component as unmounted. This avoids the overhead
  associated with pausing and resuming the scheduler and reduces code size by using builtin Arez mechanisms.
* **\[core\]** Introduce the `@PostRender` annotation that can be used to annotated a method that is invoked
  when a component has been rendered. This can be after the component has been mounted or after it has been
  updated. This method is invoked before the `@PostUpdate` annotated method in the `componentDidUpdate(...)`
  method and before the `@PostMount` annotated method in the `componentDidMount(...)` method.
* **\[core\]** Re-introduce the boolean parameter `force` to `Component.scheduleRender()` method so that it
  is possible to trigger a re-render but still pass through the `shouldComponentUpdate()` lifecycle stage if
  present.
* **\[processor\]** Avoid generating `componentPreUpdate` lifecycle method for components that have have
  observable props and no `@PreUpdate` or `@OnPropChange(phase=PRE)` annotated methods. This was achieved by
  migrating all observable prop monitoring into `shouldComponentUpdate` and out of the `componentPreUpdate`
  lifecycle method.
* **\[processor\]** Avoid generating the `shouldComponentUpdate` lifecycle method if changes to any prop will
  cause the component to be re-rendered and there are no observable methods for component.
* **\[core\]** Remove the `ReactArezEnvironment` class as it no longer provides any value given that the Arez
  scheduler is paused until a subsequent microtask.
* **\[core\]** Introduce the `@PreUnmount` annotation that can be used to annotate a method that is invoked
  before a component is unmounted or detatched. This replaces the ability to override the
  `componentWillUnmount()` lifecycle method.
* **\[core\]** Remove the `React.cloneElement(...)` method as it has never been used by any React4j application
  and if it was used it could be reimplemented in java rather than relying on javascript extern.
* **\[dom\]** Remove the invariant check in `ReactDOM.render(...)` that duplicates check already present in
  native react.js code.
* **\[core\]** Remove the unused `React.isReactElement(...)` method.
* **\[core\]** Import Closure Compiler annotated externs for react. This is needed to support the closure
  compiler compilation stage that is part of J2CL compilation.
* **\[core\]** Remove the `Component.getKey()` as it is not expected to work as keys are not stored on props.
* **\[core\]** Mark the `Component.props` and the `Component.state` externs as `@nosideeffects` so closure
  compiler will remove accesses if results are unused.
* **\[core\]** Use the builtin mechanisms for defining Arez component ids. The React4j previously shared a
  single generator across every component while the new version has a per-type generator. Thew builtin variant
  produces slightly more optimized code.
* **\[processor\]** Ensure that components that extend `ReactArezComponent` never implement `DisposeTrackable`
  as this feature does not make sense for a react component.
* **\[processor\]** Remove `isDisposed( this )` check inside `render()` method for components that extend
  `ReactArezComponent` as there should be no scenario where the component is disposed without going through
  `componentWillUnmount()` lifecycle stage. Eliminating this check reduces the size of code.
* **\[arez\]** Refactor the `react4j.arez.Arez` module to remove the inherit from `react4j.dom.Dom` as it is
  no longer used.
* **\[processor\]** Change the name of the interfaces used to construct the components from `BuilderN` to
  `StepN` to improve clarity as the `"Builder"` nomenclature is over-used in that class.
* **\[core\]** Ensure that component elements have their key initialized to `null` rather than leaving it
  `undefined`. This results in monomorphic code when processing these type of elements and eliminates a
  source of deoptimization that can occur in V8. This also eliminates a correctness bug that can occur in
  fragments that contain a list of keyed and unkeyed elements which resulted in incorrect behaviour during
  reconciliation.
* **\[core\]** Change the `$$typeof` property on fragments from `Symbol(react.element)` to `Symbol(react.fragment)`.
  The change seems to have no behavioural difference as the reconciler uses `type` field to control behaviour
  but it makes it easier for humans visually inspecting data.
* **\[core\]** Remove addition of empty string to `key` element when supplied as a prop and instead just
  cast the key to a string. The supporting infrastructure no longer supplies non-string keys and adding an
  empty string will stop the GWT compiler from removing `toString()` on any subclass of `Object` (i.e. no
  `toString()` methods are candidates for dead code elimination).
* **\[processor\]** Eliminate the static inner class named `Prop` from the enhanced react component if it is empty.
* **\[processor\]** Rename the generated dagger helper class from `[MyComponent]DaggerFactory` to
  `[MyComponent]DaggerComponentExtension` to align with the same pattern in Arez.
