---
title: React4j 0.136 released
author: React4j Project
authorURL: https://github.com/react4j
---

[Full Changelog](https://github.com/react4j/react4j/compare/v0.135...v0.136)

Changes in this release:

* Upgrade the `org.realityforge.org.jetbrains.annotations` artifact to version `1.2.0`.
* Make the generated `*Builder` class final.
* Restrict the annotation processor so that it only processes classes annotated with `react4j.annotations.ReactComponent` rather than any classes annotated with `react4j.annotations.*`. This produces a small speedup when base react4j annotated classes intended for extension are included in the compile.
* Remove the `com.google.auto.service:auto-service` dependency as it offers little value given that it only automates the generation of a single 1 line file that has been stable over the entire lifetime of the product.
* Add the `elemental-core` dependency to the `react4j-core` pom. The new `j2cl-maven-plugin` under development requires that dependencies be explicitly declared.
* Avoid excluding transitive dependencies of the `org.realityforge.grim:grim-annotations` and the `org.realityforge.org.jetbrains.annotations:org.jetbrains.annotations` dependencies when defining the `react4j-core` pom.
* Update the react externs for closure compiler to remove the `@protected` jsdoc tag. While this is semantically correct, our implementation generates public methods as we use interfaces marked with `@JsType( isNative = true, namespace = JsPackage.GLOBAL, name = "?" )` to expose the methods as javascript for GWT2.x support. We can not eliminate this interfaces yet without requiring every GWT project to selectively enable jsinterop exports which is considered too great a burden. If/when this toolkit goes j2cl only then we will re-add `@protected` jsdoc tags.
