---
title: React4j 0.150 released
author: React4j Project
authorURL: https://github.com/react4j
---

[Full Changelog](https://github.com/react4j/react4j/compare/v0.149...v0.150)
[API Differences](https://react4j.github.io/api-diff?key=react4j&old=0.149&new=0.150)

The release includes 2 non breaking API changes.

Changes in this release:

* Upgrade the `org.realityforge.org.jetbrains.annotations` artifact to version `1.3.0`.
* Upgrade the `org.realityforge.proton` artifacts to version `0.39`.
* Upgrade the `org.realityforge.arez` artifacts to version `0.167`.
* Change the way the annotation processor generates factories for the react components. Rather than relying on `@PerInstance` infrastructure from Arez, explicitly create the factory class. This is a breaking change as it changes the name of the factory class to `[MyComponent]Factory` and removes the dagger extension class `[MyComponent]DaggerComponentExtension`. This reduces significant boilerplate as the user is no longer required to call a `bind*()` method to attach the factory to the static factory infrastructure used by react4j. It also simplifies integration with other injection frameworks.
* Add a `ReactComponent.inject` parameter that controls whether the generated factory is annotated with the `javax.inject` annotations. Previously it was assumed that the annotations were present if the type annotated by the `@ReactComponent` annotation had constructor parameters.
* Add initial integration with the [Sting](https://sting-ioc.github.io/) injection framework. Control the generation of the sting annotations with the `ReactComponent.sting` parameter. The `@ReactComponent` has also been annotated with a `StingProvider` annotation, so it is possible to simply add the react component directly to the `includes` parameters rather than the generated factory class.
* Add the `react4j.debug` annotation option to help debug annotation processing.
