---
title: React4j 0.02 released
type: minor
---

[Full Changelog](https://github.com/react4j/react4j/compare/v0.01...v0.02)

Changes in this release:

##### Fixed
* Upgraded `braincheck` dependency to ensure that invariant checks are correctly compiled out during
  production builds.
* Upgraded `arez` dependency to ensure that compile time constants are correctly resolved at compile time.
* Restructure the `ReactConfig` class so the compile time constants are correctly resolved at compile time.
* Removed the requirement to supply `-generateJsInteropExports` argument when compiling the GWT code by
  defining a `@JsType(isNative = true)` interface to define the lifecycle methods and manually patching
  the constructor function to specify the equivalent of ES6 static properties (i.e. `displayName` atm).
* Made sure that `ReactElement` does not expect a native type named `ReactElement` and is an `Object`.

##### Added
* ✨ Added [ArezSpyUtil](http://react4j.github.io/react4j/api/react4j/arez/spy/ArezSpyUtil.html) to simplify the
  setup of Arez spy console logger during development and debugging.
* ✨ Added [ReactWidget](http://react4j.github.io/react4j/api/react4j/widget/ReactWidget.html) that simplifies
  integration with applications still using GWT Widgets.

##### Changed
* 💥 Updated `ArezComponent` so subclasses implement the `render()` method rather than `doRender()` to make it
  consistent with the way components that do not extend `ArezComponent` are written.
* 💥 Removed `NativeComponent` from the public API supported by the library by making it package access. It is
  an implementation detail that should not be relevant to downstream consumers.
* 💥 Renamed `componentInitialize()` to `componentDidConstruct()` to follow the naming conventions baked into
  the react component model.
* 💥 Stopped shipping artifacts with a classifier of `gwt` as there is no consumer of the library that is not
  gwt based. This essentially entails shipping the `.gwt.xml` and source files inside the main jar artifact.
