---
title: React4j 0.07 released
type: minor
---

[Full Changelog](https://github.com/realityforge/react4j/compare/v0.06...v0.07)

Changes in this release:

##### Fixed
* Ensure that `ReactArezComponent` runs all actions using the context in which the component was created. This avoids
  assertion failures if Arez is used in multi-Xone configuration error and the creation and rendering of components
  occurs in different zones.
* The `ReactArezComponent.componentWillUnmount` would dispose the manually created reactive elements one at a
  time starting with props, state and finally the render tracker. However this caused observers to react to each
  individual element being disposed which could cause assertion failures if an observer was scheduled that could
  use one of these individually. Instead they were wrapped in an action that disposes all of the reactive elements
  in one go eliminating many of these problems. (i.e. when a `@Computed` method uses a `prop()` and is used
  inside the `render()` function).
* Invoke `Disposable.dispose( this )` in `ReactArezComponent.componentWillUnmount()` so that all the other reactive
  elements on the component are disposed at the same time. This is most useful to stop `@Autorun` and `@Computed`
  methods on the component from running after the component is unmounted.

##### Added
* **\[arez\]** Add `ReactArezComponent.hasRenderDepsChanged()` that exposes flag indicating whether Arez has
  determined that the component needs to be re-rendered.
* **\[arez\]** Update the `react4j.arez.ReactArezDev` GWT module to inherit from the `org.realityforge.arez.ArezDev`
  GWT module. This ensures that assertions, and invariant checks are enabled in development mode.

##### Changed
* Upgrade to BrainCheck 1.3.0 so assertion failures open the debugger.
* Upgrade to Arez 0.19.
* 💥 Update the `ReactArezComponent` implementation so that `props` and `state` are made not observable. This
  dramatically simplified the code and conceptual model for `ReactArezComponent` components. This has meant that
  components can no longer define `@Autorun` or `@Track` methods that will react to changes in `props` or `state`
  but this was considered a "bad" practice and discouraged anyway.
* 💥 Update the `Component` implementation to make the `props()`, `state()` and `scheduleStateUpdate(...)` methods
  final.
